---
layout: post
title:  MrWatts
categories: readme
---

MrWatts is for those who love the sweet sonds of MIDI music but lack the resources or talent to make any for themselves.  It is a command line tool that creates procedurally generated music customized to the user's tastes.

##Dependencies
This gem has two important dependencies: Midilib and JSON.  You can install these using <span class="inline-highlight">bundle install</span> or manually.

##How to use

Install Mrwatts
{% highlight bash %}
$ gem install Mrwatts
{% endhighlight %}

Get Mrwatts to compose using default settings
{% highlight bash %}
$ mrwatts compose
{% endhighlight %}

Or, specify how you want your song to sound
{% highlight bash %}
$ mrwatts compose --scale melodic_minor --bpm 180
{% endhighlight %}

<p>Your song will be saved as a file named crab_cakes.mid in your current directory.</p>

###Scales
<p>Here is a complete list of available scales:</p>
<ul>
	<li>Major</li>
	<li>Minor</li>
	<li>Ionian -- same as "major".</li>
	<li>Dorian -- minor scale; somewhat mysterious sounding.</li>
	<li>Phrygian -- minor scale; used often in metal.</li>
	<li>Lydian -- major scale; somewhat mysterious sounding.</li>
	<li>Mixolydian -- major scale; used often in blues.</li>
	<li>Aeolian -- same as "minor".</li>
	<li>Locrian -- minor/diminished scale; also used in metal.</li>
	<li>Harmonic_minor -- minor scale; used alternative to aeolian that gives more satisfying resolutions.</li>
	<li>Melodic_minor -- minor scale; used often in jazz and classical music.</li>
	<li>Chromatic -- contains every note; sounds very eerie and atonal when Mr Watts uses it.</li>
</ul>

###BPM
The default BPM (beats per minute) is 120.  A higher number makes the song faster and a lower number makes the song slower.

##Disclaimer
This gem is still a work in progress, and many of the planned features have not yet been implemented.  A lot of the songs you generate may sound terrible.

